---
# Course title, summary, and position.
linktitle: Apache Spark Programming with Databricks
summary: Unix es una familia de sistemas operativos. La primera versión de Linux fue desarrollada a partir de 1969. Unix se caracteriza por ser portable y multitarea.
weight: 1

# Page metadata.
title: Apache Spark Programming with Databricks
date: "2020-06-24T00:00:00Z"
lastmod: "2020-06-24T00:00:00Z"
draft: true  # Is this a draft? true/false
toc: true  # Show table of contents? true/false
type: docs  # Do not modify.
url: "databricks/01-course-welcome"
description: Unix es una familia de sistemas operativos. La primera versión de Linux fue desarrollada a partir de 1969. Unix se caracteriza por ser portable y multitarea.
# Add menu entry to sidebar.
# - name: Declare this menu item as a parent with ID `name`.
# - weight: Position of link in menu.
menu:
  databricks:
    name: Apache Spark Programming with Databricks
    weight: 2
---

This course uses a case study driven approach to explore the fundamentals of Spark Programming with Databricks, including Spark architecture, the DataFrame API, Structured Streaming, and query optimization.
In this course you will start by visualizing and applying Spark architecture concepts in example scenarios. Then, you will explore and preprocess datasets by applying a variety of DataFrame transformations and actions. After ingesting data from various file formats, you will apply these preprocessing steps and write them to Delta tables. The case study then expands to stream from Delta in an analytics use case that demonstrates core Structured Streaming concepts. Lastly, you will explore the Spark UI and how query optimization, partitioning, and caching affect performance.
Learning objectives

    Identify core features of Spark and Databricks.
    Describe how DataFrames are created and evaluated in Spark.
    Apply the DataFrame transformation API to process and analyze data.
    Demonstrate how Spark is optimized and executed on a cluster.
    Apply Delta and Structured Streaming to process streaming data.

Prerequisites

    Familiarity with basic SQL concepts (select, filter, groupby, join, etc)
    Beginner programming experience with Python or Scala (syntax, conditions, loops, functions)

Learning path

    This course is part of the data engineer and data scientist learning paths.

Proof of completion

    Upon 80% completion of this course, you will receive a proof of completion. 
